Speaker 1
Yeah a new heldina amanu. Co an fou cinq mois linkum narcoduhan. Mm-hmm. Welcome to Hana Sua Hija Rantu Alayhamala. Incanto rila Shida La Yansuna Lor. We love she done. Yeah and you can fanzi. In namelu. Yeah, a U Halina Amanu Tubu ilamhitam suha. Oh no, I'm not sure. Resort beaucoup Firmuayuduchilankum Janatan. Artihul Anhumala Yuzillahunabia. Um the new No yes, I did him. Wa beakoolu Your cool no Mimlena Nurana Fin Lana. In Nkarraulinchei. Fee Fasab bih bihramdi rub bika wastafi. In nahuka nao

Speaker 2
So the law is a very good idea. Illa Ibn Shida nur Rajim, Ismilla hi-Rahman-Rahim, Alhamdulillah Hi-Rabil Alemeen.

Speaker 3
Wasalaatu wasalamu alay rasulina Muhammadin wa ala alihi wasahbi jjma'in. Rabbi shrahli sadri wayasirli amri wahlulla utatambil. Bsmillahir Rahman Rahim Al-Lazina Yakuluna Rabbena Innana manfirdana zunubana waqina adabanar. As-sabirina wasadireena wal munfireena walmushtal firena bil eshar Sadakullah Lazim. Respected sisters and brothers in Islam, the two verses which I have just recited from Surah to Ali Imran Allah Azzaal gives us description of a true believer or true believers. Those who deserve the pleasure of Allah, those who are faithful to their faith. Let me give first the translation of these two verses and then I will move on to talk about the significance of tonight. Who are these true believers? They say, O our Lord Allah, indeed we have faith in you, we believe you. And we are mindful of you. We are conscious of you. So forgive us. Forgive our sins and also shield us from the punishment of the fire. Protect us from the terrible punishment of the hell. These are the people as Qur'an says, Rizwanum bin Allah. They have received the contentment of Allah Almighty. And when you receive the pleasure of Allah, that is far better than the pleasures of paradise. That is what the Quran indicates. The next ayah, Allah says, these believers are truly patient. Those who preserve their you know strength, their strong imam, they are steadfast They are truthful and they are the devoutly obedient and they are those who spend in the way of Allah. They are charity-minded-minded and also they ask forgiveness of Allah Before the dawn, so they are vigilant, they seek forgiveness of Allah in the early time of the day before sunrise. My respected sisters and brothers, why I have quoted these two verses because they have relevance to our night today. Tonight is the middle of Shaban, which means 15 days to the month of Ramadan. You know in Islam every act of worship has a preparation, which means when you come to the mosque For the prayer, you have some prerequisites, some conditions to meet. Like wudu. Meaning ablution. It's a preparation for the prayer. When you go to pilgrimage, hajj, there is a preparation for hajj, physical, financial, moral. Even when you step on the holy site in Mecca, like let's say on the eighth of Zil Hitcha There is also a preparation for the day of Arafat, which is the pinnacle of the Hajj. So even for Zekat there is a preparation. Mental and physical preparation to give zekat. Now for the month of fasting, there is a preparation So these days and nights are in fact r exactly, if I use the term of you know our religious sources, a ta the time of moral and spiritual and mental preparation for this month. Which means in order for us to take the maximum benefit of this month, we have to prepare ourselves. So tonight is Shaban. So the middle of the month of Shaban, meaning the night of the mid-shaban, which corresponds of course in our calendar like dara'a. I will talk about this bara'a. Of course we have a number of meanings of bara'ah. What one of the meanings is to keep away from sins, from evils, from errors. But we move being is amenable to make errors. to make mistakes. Because to err is too, you know, human, but to forgive is divine. That's the famous expression. We are susceptible and you know liable to make mistakes, but it is Allah Almighty who will forgive us. So tonight we are expected to intensify our efforts and so much so that We this this night like we hope that Allah Almighty will forgive us for our own past sins, but that requires us to make a firm commitment. And that is what I would like to share with you as our dear respected Imam recited, Tubu. You know, like a tawbah al-lasuha. In a sense, you have to make a s re resolution, a tawbah, irrevocable tawbah, that oh Allah I might have committed errors and mistakes Therefore, I ask for your forgiveness. Now, therefore, Prophet Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam kept on reminding his Sahaba and Muslims at large. Tubu gabla and temutu ha sibu gabla and tuhasibu Which means you should experience at least mentally a kind of death. It is not a real death. But preparation for death. Die before the real death occurs to you, before you face the inevitable death. So you have to prepare yourself, meaning contemplation of death is important for us. Therefore, Rasulullah beautifully and eloquently articulated this Sayyidina. It says you should make you know like a preparation for death thinking reflecting of death which is inevitable then also he says Hasibu gabla and to hasibu, you should make a self-reckoning, meaning self-examination of your deeds, of your actions. My dear brothers and sisters, as Muslims, we should do every night before we go to bed. You know, a calculation, a self-reckoning, a self-accounting, a self-examination, a self-reflection of our entire day. Oh Allah, what did I do today? To please you, to please my friends, to please my community. If you respond to this question affirmatively, satisfactorily, Alhamdulillah, then you should the next day better. But if you fail to answer this question satisfactorily, then you should make repentance to Allah Almighty. Repent and ask forgiveness from Allah Almighty. That is important. So then we have weekly self-reckoning, weekly muhasabha, monthly muhasabha and yearly muhasabha. Before we are being examined, we are being questioned by our Lord Allah Azzaal, we should take ourselves to account. Ask this question, what I have done today. And this is why this night is one of these special occasions for us which allows us to have a self-reflection of our deeds. Therefore, the night is known as the ninth night of atonement, ninth night of acquittal, night of deliverance, night of forgiveness and mercy. So we are approaching day by day this blessed month of Ramadan in order for us to take the maximum advantage of this month. Therefore, we have to make preparation and this night is one of these golden opportunities in front of us. Let me give you a couple of hadiths and inshallah I will conclude my sohda because we have just 20 minutes and we have also Quran recitation. A couple of reports came from the Prophet Muhammad, our beloved Prophet, concerning the significance of this night. Some scholar may indicate that these hadith might not be very valid, but what is important is the significance of the meaning of the Sadiths. Inallahu ta'ala layataliwa fi lailetin niswimin shaban fiya firu li jamihi illa li mushrikin ew mushahin. This is a hadith quoted in Ibn Hamajah. May Allah be pleased with him. And Hadith says, Allah Azzawajal Most High looks down on the middle of the Shahban, meaning on the night of the Mitshaban and observes and watches his servants and forgives all his creatures if they are sincere in their faith and in their ibadah in their action except two group of people one taste they those who would associate Allah with other gods We like Mushrik and the other one, Mushachim, those whose heart is full of you know enemy, hostility, they never think of good like evil-minded people. So these two groups are exception to the rule. And I wish you therefore a blessed night of Barak, insha'Allah, this night. Again, another hadith. Ilesamah Uddunya Feyah Firuli Ekthermin Adedi Shari Hanami Kelvin. There was a group of people in in uh at the time in Medina, they had a lot of goats. So Rasul to illustrate this point, he gives this example. He says Allah again descends. you know and looks down upon his you know his servants uh on the night of the midshaban and forgives most of his servants If they of course repent, if they are sincere, and so much so that his forgiveness, like uh in terms of quantity, are much higher than the hairs on the sheep of Banu Kelp because they had a huge flux you know of of sheep and therefore this is an ex example Allah grants his forgiveness whomever he you know approach to him. The last hadith then I would like to quote Again, Ida Kanet Lay Letus Shaba Layt Lay Letun Mswish Shaban Niswana Shawdan Thakumu Leilaha Wasumu Yagumuha. Fa'innullaha ta'ala yenzulfiha li guru wishamsi ilasema id-dunya. Fayapul ala min mustang firin Fa'ar-Firalehu Ala Mustarzigum Fa'ar-Zuguhu Ala Muptalam Fa'huwa Fihi Fiwa fi'hu ala keda ba keda kedab keda hatta yat talya al-fajr. This is again from Ibn Majah. Allah He says, Rasulullah says, you know when the night of the middle Shaban comes and you should Fast on the day and also at night stay vigilant. Remain vigilant, wakeful And till the dawn, and look at what he says, Allah Azzah looks for his servants who are approaching and who are beseeching and seeking his forgiveness, and he says Is there anyone among my servants who is who is asking for my forgiveness? I will forgive him. Is there anyone among my servants who is asking for sustenance, risk, livelihood, so that I will give him Is there anyone who has been afflicted with a disease, with a disaster, with a calamity, so that I will relieve him? I will cure him? And and this continues until their feasure. So inshallah we uh should be one of these in shurups among his servants that he Allah Almighty will forgive us and will give his mercy and barak blessings to us. Finally Brothers and sisters, of course we are going through a very critical period of time in the history. Very critical period of time. A strong Muslim never ever despair hope of Allah. Never ever Besides, in the history of humanity, most of the prophets faced more challenging circumstances that we are in now. Every prophet has a clear example for us to offer as an as a lesson. They each one you know had his own affliction, turbulence, tribulation, trial that you could. you could ever imagine. So yes, we have been all affected by this pandemic, this disease. This COVID-19. But as we believe that Allah Almighty will grant a cure for it. But two conditions are attached to it. One, scientifically speaking, we should look for I mean medicine, vaccination, whatever treatment Because Allah Almighty has given us intelligence so that we govern our life. We are not a blind follower of anything. We are fee That's why we are responsible for our actions. So before knocking at the door of Allah Almighty, trusting Him, we should do our part. And search for the best that's available to us. So alhamdulillah, now vaccination is available Ramadan is coming, therefore I would like to ask my brothers and sisters when the time comes, when your turn comes. Get the vaccination, insha'Allah, you will be okay, we will be okay, and we will have a beautiful month of Ramadan together, like iftar together in this place. Second As we learn from the example of the Prophet, you know, I wish I had done this. I wish I had done this. You know, this is not an attitude of a Muslim. Past is past. You cannot bring it back. But past, you know, it's important for us to take admonition, to take lesson, to take some kind of encouragement, not frustration. So the past should serve us as a window so that we can prepare our future. So in in the Muslim mind, there is no if or but, if but there is always strong resolution, firm commitment Meaning until the time comes, we have to continue to work, fulfill our duties as Muslims Our duties as Muslims, because serving for humanity is pleasing Allah Almighty in our religion. And serving your brothers and sisters, giving them the goodness, advice, money, time Allah Almighty will be very pleased with us. So as we learn from Ali Radiallahu An, work for this world as if you will never die. And prepare yourself for the hereafter as if you will die tomorrow. This is the message that I would like to convey to you May Allah Almighty keep us in the best of health. May Allah Almighty enable us to reach the month of Ramadan, the blessed month. is in the best of health, in the highest morale, with full motivation. And also may Allah Almighty grant paradise for those who passed away. I know we have a distinguished brother and sister, distinguished brother and sisters, all they work very hard for the establishment of this place. And on this occasion, on this occasion, I would like to remember duly everyone You know, who has been instrumental in planning, designing, constructing financially or physically giving help to this place And also those who are here to maintain this place, may Allah bless them. Grant them, grant them barakah. If they passed away, grant them Jannah. And also may Allah grant the highest place to all our brothers and sisters who passed away because of this Kuit. Because of this disease or other diseases. May Allah Almighty grant you a peaceful, healthy, wealthy life. Jazakum Laikana Kitira Lilla hita al-Fatiha. Throughout America, we this you know we made our lecture in English and our massage it our Turkish brothers are doing already in Turkish So please forgive us because we don't have time to deliver in Turkish lecture. Thank you very much.

Speaker 4
Oh, the villain shame for New Randy.

Speaker 5
Ismilla Yuahma In la fe Fi uh l'homme hanquimi um Rahmant. Lobbishana wantia. Rabbukumul. Um ti yankintam Bi ami façon, faillons, sabou rissamba Fa samu fai um ha samu hi san Oh calling Willa L'histoire What team kit Infantry Wayasud. Inam kanam fi masso.

Speaker 4
Adu willah imina Shaitan al-Rajim Swillahir Rahman Rahim Alhamdulillah Alameen Wala aqibatu lil Muttaqina wala udwana ila al-walemeen Was salaatu wasalamu alay rasulina Muhammad wa alayhi washabi ajmaen. Allahuma rabbinai ya rabbina. Takabban minna innakta Semi Ulheem. Watuba alainahulana innaktawabraheem. Wahtini wahtina wahtakna il-hakti wa ila tariq al-Mustaqim, Biba Rakatil Qurani-Aween, Wabi Hurmati man arsaltahu rahmat al-alameen Wafuana Yakirim, Wafwana Yarahim, Walfillanubana Bifavalika Wajudika Wakaronika Yahkram al Ekramin Wayarhamar Rahim Ej alemnirin Rabbi, Rahman wa rahimulanalla. Bizderi Waratin Walundan Haber daretin, vebizdri Rahmet wa marhamatin lehzurna kabulatin. Sana son suz Hamdu Sanao Sunya Rabbi. Hazati Adam Nani Kibaran Gyundardeen vein sana rudalla alaten hidaychkarmakchin. Umur l-nis seferberadin, butun peigambarana izama varusul ikhirama, Muhammad Mustafaya, Alinea Ashabuna et Bagna. Ehli baytina salatu salam sunya rabi. Allahum. Butun samimi etimizla Ghnu lerimiziv elimiza ashtik, dua laniazdabulunyurus, kabulyarabi. Ambiyanan, Evliyanan, Uleamanan, Shuhadanan, Aziz Ruhlarnabashliurus Khabuly Arabi. Ur Permayan Kalpten, Yashar Mayan Guzden, Toi Mayan Nefistan Ve Kabul Ulun Mayandu Adam Sana Sun Yurus. Nefis Theremizin Kutu isteklerindan, Hevesteremizin Peshindakoshmachtan, Shaitanun Vesvese Sherindan Sanasur Nurus. Bizdari Himayet Besevdien Kullzum Rasnaba Hilala Yarabi, ilahi Yarabi, millati mizi wa bitunin sandu, hertul falaqet wa tehlihidan muha fazailah. Ulkemizive istam belini rahmet bareketwe inayatilla ma'amura illay Arabi. Allahum. Bizari Ayrul Qwardan, fitna wafesatanu zatlashir. Madilemane Viguster Mizibir Laštir, Aramzdahi Bayanishmai, Gushlaandir Yarabdi. Ya ilha hala alameen. Dini mizin, millati mizin, bekasam sarsajak, her tululud dahi live hariji fitnalardan, fesatlardan Milla kimizi, wemmemla kiti mizi Halasalaya Rabbi. Ya ila hala alameen waya khairan na sirien. Ilahi, ey ich sanda ikramsahibi, ey Lutfa isana Bolalan, Khandisina Ilti Jayaadal Nirinyardam Jsu. Kandisina Sunamara Emanvaram, Korkannarun Kandisira emni attaqaushtu, Yujarapimis. Allahum Bizikatunda, umul kitapta shaki ketu, veya mahrum, veya kovulmush, veya ruzkdaru la raki, yazdi sanya rabi. Fasbu isanallah, Kutulu Mzu, Mahroumi Yeti Mizil, Bizikatunda, Unmul Kitabta, Said . Her hitmetli shekhand, hukmedilan, we sinkalvirilan, mubarek shugedh, barakajesin de Bisden bildi miz ve bilmadimiz, we seinin bildin bitun bela Allah Ruzaklashturi Yarabbi. Ya ila hala alamin, bizi dunyada ahirath, ilikle, qzeli klaissanail. Bizi ilar danail Yarabi. Bizi Janet ve Jamalilem Shereflearabi. Ya ilahla alameen, gej Mishter Mizza Rahmatilaya Yarabbi. Ahireta irtihaledan, Yakunda Rumza, Anaderimizer Rabulla Rumza Rahmatila Ya Rabbi. Bugajanin Hurmetinaya Onar Mezalar Pul Nura Il Yarabi, Ilahi Arabbi, Buaksham, Pusharda Biz, Yemeki Sham Naranda Bulunan, Buyemeki Ikramadan, Kadeshri Mzin. Keshnichana Rahmetilaya Yarabbi, Vesila Karachamunda, Rhunus Shadelay Arabbi, Okunan Kurandan Ruhunu Haberdara Yarabbi Kabrini Purnura Yarabi, illahi Yarabi, Geshmister Nizarah Mateila Yarabhi, Bizi Qurana, Azim Ishana Lai Kayla Yarabi If anym is alahi salatu wa sala munsun neti seni yesinala yikalaya rabbi. Subhana rabbi ka rabbi la izatya amba ya sifun. Wasalamun al Musareen wa alayhim wa alhamdulillahi rabbbilameen lillahi ta'ala fai tihatama sala wa sq

